---
layout: default
---

## Workshop on "Inverse Problems and Optimisation" 6-7 May 2021

Inverse problems are concerned with the recovery of the parameters of a
forward model given observations of data that it describes. Such
problems arise in almost all fields of science when details of a
postulated model, such as maps of physical properties and/or their
classification into identifiable objects, have to be determined from a
set of observed data.The inverse problem topic is highly
cross-disciplinary, both within mathematics, encompassing aspects of
pure, applied and statistics, and across subjects, including physical
sciences, engineering and biology to name only a few. Inverse problems
increasingly consider mappings between solutions and data1in high
numbers of dimensions (e.g. three in space plus time plus
wavelength). Direct representations easily exceed existing
computational and memory resources, and necessitate appropriate design
of data structures and algorithms. In parallel, machine learning
methods designed for "big data" problems are proving useful in
developing data reduction approaches and representation of appropriate
priors. Some of the topics of this planned workshop includescheduling
and optimising parallelism for multiple forward solves as part of a
nonlinear inverse problem on exascale architectures; the combination
of inference-based machine learning techniques and classical model
based inverse problems at scale, and their often differing hardware
requirements (e.g. GPU vs CPU); using exascale computing to include
uncertainty in the formulation of inverse problems.

### Speakers

 - James Nagy
 - George Biros
 - Vladimir Druskin
 - Laurent Demanet
 - Oscar Bruno
 - Chris Budd

### Registration

The workshop will take place on Zoom: please [register](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/excalibur-workshop-on-inverse-problems-and-optimisation-tickets-149191430585) to take part.
